hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski this episode of the smart
economy podcast is part of a handful we
will be releasing on gaming and
blockchain in this episode of the gaming
series I chat with Andrew yakamichev the
community lead of blockchain cuties
Universe BCU is an nft trading and
collectible game that launched in 2018
which spans across multiple blockchains
and is integrating a land map style of
gameplay it's nft based characters have
unique attributes can be equipped with
items and can even be bred to create new
characters in this conversation Andrew
and I talk about the nuances between
traditional and blockchain based game
development the origin story of BCU how
the community shapes project how the
blockchain gaming space has evolved over
time and much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Andrew and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey guys welcome to the smart economy
podcast today I am speaking with Andrew
yakimochev the community lead from
blockchain cuties Universe how are you
doing today Andrew hey Dylan glad to be
here doing well man thanks for joining a
lot of your community might know you
online as 10 fee so just to let people
know that that's your handle if they
want to know who we're chatting with
yeah so to kind of jump into this what's
your background and how did you stumble
into the blockchain space he kind of
goes in like deep into the roots
honestly in a way right uh I think for a
lot of people it does I started to play
video games way back when when I was a
kid and uh internet in the early 2000s
was a neat place to be we sort of see
this with web web3 right now right so
kind of similar Vibes but it was a
little bit more 90s I guess right
stylistically and then I went to uh
study Graphics design obviously internet
Graphics design everything kind of goes
in together and uh later on I kind of
met with Vladimir through our mutual
friend way back in I don't remember the
year precisely but like like 2000s like
I think late 2000s right and uh I did
work with the one of their companies
that he worked for at the time helped
them out helped their Community lead to
do some uh streams and stuff I was like
very into twitch very early on so we did
like shout casting and stuff like that
just for fun we went our separate ways
they did other things and I was I was
studying and uh started working in like
different jobs I was a waiter I then I
was a salesperson for a big uh
consolidator for Airlines for like two
years nearly and then when I quit that I
started looking for a new new work and
actually Vladimir hit me up on Facebook
and I was like I have a project in the
works would you like to join us and like
that spiraled into what we have now it
was four and a half years ago roughly
and uh yeah it kind of went in and never
looked back I didn't know what like I
knew about blocks chain Tech very very
little
when I started but I didn't know what
Bitcoin is by you know word of math and
stuff but uh in general it was more
about the game for me it still is uh
it's just the tech itself also brings a
lot of value to me as a you know gamer
in a way because you know that's the
dream grinding gear doing stuff in a
game and then actually making a sale out
of that if I want to and uh this is kind
of like the core value we have within
the team as well uh which is really cool
so I guess that's how I got into this I
wouldn't say it was a premeditated thing
it just kind of in a way fell into it
but at the same time it kind of fit the
mold in a way that's super cool my
journey into blockchain started with you
know post College I got my first job
working at a grocery store and then I
became a canvasser which is a guy who
stands on the street with a binder
asking for donations to a charity oh
that's pretty cool yeah it was it was a
learning experience and after a few
years of that went to to grad school to
become a city planner and did that for
for about five years and then just got
disenfranchised with the way that like
government processes work and I cared so
much about building Urban cities for for
people on a broad scale but things just
took so long and when blockchain and
crypto kind of hit my radar in 2017 it
was
um kind of like mind bending because
here you can work on a global scale but
blockchain and crypto is such an
Innovative and new tech that it's all on
The Cutting Edge and everything happened
so quickly so it was nice to have this
kind of like macro impact but not
necessarily have to wait years and
decades to see your efforts kind of come
to fruition yeah for sure so yeah and
it's sounds really cool that blockchain
cutie is aligned with your gaming
expertise just wanting to be a gamer and
to learn more about gaming so it sounds
like you kind of come from being a gamer
coming into the gaming aspect of this
project like is Vladimir and a lot of
the other people on the team so Vladimir
Tom goes the CEO of the project yeah do
these folks come from like a gaming
background well Vladimir he always was
interested in making games from what I
know right so way back when uh one of
his like I guess uh Treasured Memories
in a way right uh he had like a
Neverwinter server Like A Shard running
which he kind of made from scratch right
so lore he built like locations and
stuff like that so like when he was
still I think it's in school so yeah
it's kind of like everything kind of
built up to it in a way right so if you
look at the background of Vladimir you
looked at background for me for example
I've been playing CS competitively I
have been playing DOTA competitively
cool like basically all of the Call of
Duty is up until Black Ops 4. right so
uh with friends basically I have been
always a hardcore gamer I played
everything that you've heard about
pretty much except for like maybe World
of Warcraft just not my thing I'm more
in a running a runny shooty guy right
but uh yeah uh it kind of was in the
back of my mind you know wanting to make
games wanting to make uh difference in
that in this world in gaming aspect of
the world right and the Vladimir have
been consciously doing it right so he
went in to making fan made modifications
fan made content basically but you know
much more Broadway it's just not content
it's just like a game and and it kind of
spiraled out from there he have been
always analyzing games and stuff like
that I have been analyzing the games in
a little bit of a different way he went
into more marketing uh meta building and
stuff like that I've been mostly tied
into meta-analysis for CS for DOTA
obviously you have to learn like metas
and stuff like that so it's been
building up to blockchain cuties in a
way and uh yeah here we are basically so
the whole reason I want to ask is it
sounds like the blockchain cuties team
predominantly comes from kind of just
like a passionate gamer sort of
perspective and that maybe you guys
hadn't worked in like any of the big
gaming Studios that put out like AAA
games or anything like that so something
I noticed in the past year or so and
blockchain cuties is going on its fifth
year of existence so I want to tie into
this experience
but something with like axi Infinity
this was the team's kind of first game
so they came from the blockchain space
and made a game whereas you're starting
to hear like from the other side of that
perspective like you want gaming Studios
to come into the blockchain space and
integrate blockchain because there's
going to be a very like stylistic
difference in the way that the game is
put forth yeah and maybe like you if you
listen to a VC podcast they say oh we
want to go with a gaming studio who
comes into blockchain because they know
how to make a fun game but I think on
the opposite side there can be an
argument made for like a blockchain
based team that makes a game and I kind
of put blockchain cuties and that camp
because it seemed like when blockchain
cuties first came out in 2018 and
started integrating with Neo in 2019
that it was very blockchain focused and
then the game kind of followed on that
so maybe just like philosophically
speaking from your perspective and from
the Insight you've gained over the past
four years at blockchain cuties what
kind of team makes a good blockchain
based game is it a gaming studio team
that came into blockchain or could it be
like a team that worked on a blockchain
project and then chooses to make their
first game well that's a really good
question honestly because within the
last year alone I personally did a lot
of digging on like soul searching on
that aspect right because blockchain
gaming is like a fairly new concept as a
whole right and I do believe that uh
it's kind of a mix of Both Worlds right
you have to make a fun game for people
to play it but at the same time if you
make a blockchain game you have to take
in the economy into consideration
because the general rules that apply to
say World of Warcraft and other games
like that they break the economy if you
like attach blockchain economy into it
so this is what we did on our end as
well there needs to be limitation right
there are limitations uh in blockchain
cuties that we introduced over the years
like for example we added personal items
for example that are sort of like sold
by bound items right but at the same
time we give opportunity to players to
actually you know unbind those items and
sell them on the market anyways but it's
kind of the Restriction through game
design has to be made which we did with
personal items so uh during seasons for
example people get items they are
personal but they can use crafting
system to unbind them and sell them on
the market to other layers if they wish
to this kind of removes the aspect of
like botting and stuff like that because
as we all know there is this section of
uh the quote-unquote player base
quote-unquote in this case specifically
that just make hundreds of accounts try
to bought a project try to milk it for
everything it gets and then just bleed
and to sustain there has to be
precautions taken for that and the
regular gaming world doesn't necessarily
agree with that because they don't care
about that aspect usually and the
blockchain aspects kind of lives on that
in a way right there has to be
sustainability in the economic Cycles in
the game unlike wow even though wow if
you look at it let's say 10 years ago
and now the inflation is still there
right the gold is not as powerful as it
was when the game started but it's less
impactful one of the most important
things that we've learned over the years
is that when a blockchain game is being
adjusted right so like you get feedback
you see problems you have to fix those
problems you kind of change game design
you can change a little bit of balance
that you know normal game is fine right
it's not as painful you just get used to
it with blockchain games it's a little
bit more complicated than that because
people spend money on like maybe buying
the item buying a character buying
crafting slots to craft the specific
items because they needed them to be
done in time and stuff like that so
those things come into play and they
heard like 10 times more for the players
than they do in regular games which is a
really really important aspect I think
yeah do you think that's because there
is that financial and economic model
like if I want to participate in a
season or go on a raid right now I have
to drop like I don't know x amount of
gas to purchase a character that can do
that or I need to spend my time grinding
to get that character up to Snuff to be
able to participate well yeah that's
that's sort of how it goes right that's
how the world Works in a way right uh
you either spend more money or you spend
more time that's the general the
consensus of any economy really so in
our game that's very similar so you can
start with nothing and grind grind grind
get items sell them get more cuties from
like the revenue that you get we had a
few players that did that it takes a
little bit of time but you can actually
get pretty strong accounts with that so
that's pretty cool I think and uh not a
lot of games can sustain within that
Paradigm as well which I think is
something that people should start
thinking about when they start to make
the game right we stepped on many many
rakes as we went on as we say right
there's been obviously as with any game
there are always problems that you have
to solve and we do pretty much that
every every single day something that I
think is really cool is uh you yourself
and blockchain Cuties are now ogs and
the blockchain and crypto space so over
your four years at the project and
you've almost been with blockchain cutie
since the Inception I noticed that it
was launched or founded in December 2017
and in 2018 you started working for the
project basically how it went is like
the first line of code was drawn in uh
December the 2017 uh when the whole idea
kind of took place so the development
started the beta launched on April 26th
of 2018. on May 26th I came into the
office basically about a month after the
game kind of launched I joined in with
the team and uh kind of never looked
back I mean as an experience not a lot
of people would think it's a lot of fun
but that's why we're here kind of in a
way right you don't
get onto the bleeding age of tech right
and uh into a new part of you know
gaming and the tech without you know
sleepless nights and stuff like that so
uh the team has been working
nights uh even weeks sometimes with
barely any sleep and uh for me
personally right it's kind of fun I like
doing that I'm a night owl myself and uh
going for like three days without sleep
working and doing some something really
cool is something that I do like
obviously in due time uh the Asia will
take its uh toll probably but hey we
don't live forever right yeah I mean I
often say that one of the things I liked
most about the urban planning field was
actually like studying use cases and
studying examples in school so like
looking back fondly on any urban
planning stuff it was going to a coffee
shop and researching papers and writing
and now in in the role I have with uh
Neo news today I feel like I'm
researching every day so having to learn
everything because it is so Cutting Edge
is also you know the sleepless nights
and the long time spent groking
something that's also very rewarding
yeah you kind of have this like uh in
the back of your head oh man I wish I
could take a nap right now but I have to
do this you know this sucks and all that
you you kind of have this like grumpy on
the side sometimes but then when you're
done with the task you're done with the
researcher you're done with uh like
something specific that you have been
doing for a bit with gritted teeth
finished it just barely because it's
been a long time coming it feels so good
I don't know I haven't felt something in
this way uh when working other jobs yeah
it's a very different uh way of how like
you reward yourself in a way I know if
you it can't sound kind of like weird
right but I think a lot of developers
have this mindset where they they want
to do something specific and when they
do it they're like okay this was worth
it that's great
kind of building on your experience
looking over the past four years what
are some interesting or unique ways that
nfts have evolved or maybe just gaming
in the blockchain space in general well
uh first and foremost uh a lot of things
have happened over the the four years
right so in 2018 there was like the
crypto kitties us and uh actually pretty
much and there have been a few projects
see here and there that were that had
pretty good ideas as well but there are
very many different variables in place
so for some it didn't work out for some
it's uh they didn't figure out something
in time or something like that so
obviously it's not an easy task to kind
of get the product of the ground in a
niche market as it is so it's basically
a niche within a niche because a lot of
people that are into blockchain are more
into like Financial aspect of it not
necessarily like the fun aspect of it
one problematic thing that happened
early was like those pyramid farms and
both happy right there were a lot of
things that kind of muddied the water
and uh during 2019 it was a little bit
less problematic let's say because a lot
of people kind of figure out that you
know those are scams pretty much uh the
Hot Potato games the the parent games
obviously for a lot of people they look
at it and like yeah no I'm not gonna
participate in that at the same time
some people looked at it it was like
yeah but I can manipulate it right so
people had this like uh I can game the
system aspect of it to their thought
process and a lot of money was lost
pretty much and uh 2019 was a little bit
more chill in that regard a lot of
projects came out of the Woodworks a lot
of news happened like axes started to do
a lot of cool stuff the Dapper Labs have
been working on their cheese wizards I
believe there was a lot of like I don't
want to see noise specifically but there
was a lot of activity going on I think
that's the proper word for it it wasn't
like noise it was frothiness frothiness
I guess yeah I mean it was like uh quite
a bit of pretty good activity comparing
to 2018 where a lot of people got
scammed but the you know scammers come
out of the Woodworks pretty fast after
they just go back rethink their approach
and just jump in so we had like these we
still have these nft collections that
are pretty much nothing right uh it's
just hey look a picture which kind of
baffled me in a lot of ways because uh
when we talked about our game we always
put utility and uh you know game aspects
in the Forefront of it because while
yeah cool picture but what can you do
with it like that's one of the main
questions that I think everyone should
be asking because
unless that NFC does anything it's kind
of a useless piece of code honestly
speaking
if you can utilize it in a game in some
way shape or form maybe it's like a clan
invite it can be
well like basically anything game
related even right it doesn't
necessarily have to be like a fully
fledged utility token like for us it's
like Cuties are quite robust in terms of
what they can do as an nft but uh a lot
of people just put in a page slap on a
picture on it and say it's gold which is
the phone call I think the most
important takeaway I think is uh you
have to ask questions about the projects
like what does it do can I do stuff with
it within the ecosystem can I do stuff
outside of the ecosystem like these
questions do matter if I were to kind of
derive what you just said is it sounds
like utility has kind of grown for what
nfts can do over the past four years but
we still kind of have this boom bust
cycle where by scammers might come in
and out and take advantage of people
based off of the hype surrounding the
technology at the time well yeah yeah I
mean look at how blockchain and crypto
stuff kind of evolved within like four
years right when I came into it it was
uh kind of looked at as Shady because
all of the stories with the darkness the
Silk Road stuff you know all of that
kind of made the news everywhere Europe
us whichever like you saw it online all
the time and people kind of looked in at
uh Bitcoin and crypto stuff as Shady
instead of a piece of technology that it
was misused I was one of those people
before I joined the team as well I was
like I don't know man it looks kind of
shitty to me everything I read is kind
of suspect you know but when I joined
the team I started to learn obviously
the learning curve is quite steep still
even though there's a lot of Headway
made within the last four years alone
it's still a big learning curve
especially when you start with one
blockchain then you realize there's more
and there's like every single blockchain
Works differently
it's kind of nuts right but at the same
time it's a lot of fun when when you
kind of figure out things and how they
work what are the philosophies that are
behind those blockchains from the dev
teams what they're trying to do with it
is uh really cool and a lot of people
just don't go past that sadly not
because they're like one way or another
they just don't need to they don't have
to and uh it's a lot of information in
the first place so if I wasn't doing
this for work maybe I wouldn't even be
this educated on blockchain as well
gotcha but it is worth it honestly it is
worth it in a lot of ways so something
that I kind of want to pull your brain
on is what are the interesting game
mechanics that blockchain Cuties offers
through nfts and nft based characters
all right so uh if we talk about like
the cuties as nfts first and foremost I
think uh we should talk about genome
like crypto kitties had genome we have a
very similar thing that's kind of the
play from cryptic kitties in the first
place that was a great idea from the
upper labs and uh we kind of played off
of that uh with the breeding mechanic
right you can make cuties you can make
tribute Cuties which are you know
special kinds of uh cuties you we have
unique cuties that usually we sell or
you can get during events and within
that genome we added stats for
attributes like when you breed a cutie
you get like a line of attributes and
all these attributes give stats or like
Buffs or debuffs and stuff like that so
you can get elements you can get
whichever stats uh the Cutie can have so
there are I call them uh specialist
cuties right so for example we have a
list of Adventures that you can send
your cuties to and all of these
Adventures are element based right so if
you have the element it kind of gives
you a buff the thing with that is you
can actually breathe like stronger
element cuties if you know what you're
doing
and we do have like a section of our
community who are kind of tribute
hunters or like genome aficionados if
you want to say that and they kind of
figure out better compositions for
breathing Pairs and figure out best case
scenario genomes and there have been
quite a few Earth Bears there have been
like energy hedgehogs so each cutie type
has its own strengths and people figure
them out and kind of started like
building meta builds which is really
cool going further from that we want to
extrapolate from that right we initially
started Adventures as a little addition
to the game but it kind of like grew in
its own right like people started
playing them more they started
strategizing kind of liking it so we
kind of went into developing it more so
stats came out okay came about we added
uh elements we added uh drop pools now
previously it was somewhat of a
bottomless pit that you can Farm but now
it's a little bit more balanced in a way
that you know there is a limit like a
finite amount of items within a time
frame so you can just like everyone send
in like cuties and get here anymore
there are some fluctuations of Loot and
stuff like that so uh Additionally you
can go to rates of battles are like kind
of the Cornerstone of the game first of
all Adventures you go to Adventures you
farm a gear you find potions and stuff
like that uh within those ranges if you
win if you go to raids also you buy the
raid boss do damage and based on that
damage you get into the leaderboard and
get prices based off your damage done
within the same rate they're like
different types of raid bosses as well
uh the newest one with like HP based
mechanic it's kind of a hybrid from what
we did before uh which was basically a
win-lose ratio for the community like
the the First Rate boss was uh thought
to be like if 51 of players win their
battles everyone gets practice if they
send in garbage just to like send in
garbage just to participate obviously
that's going to be outweighing the wins
that are you know more meticulous and
kind of balance it out with the
community like the community has the
steering wheel here that's kind of the
approach we always went in with a lot of
mechanics obviously there are drawbacks
uh to giving the the steering wheel to
the community obviously there are people
that want more and more and more there
are people that just want their own way
and stuff like that so but that's the
beauty of it of the like Community
Driven development you talk to people
all the time and then you figure out
things which is really cool awesome so
I'm really glad that you touched upon
the community because for kind of these
blockchain based games to get off the
ground there needs to be an active and
engaged community and you know being in
the space for four years you've probably
had the chance to kind of like watch
your community start off slow and then
kind of gain traction what's that been
like over the past four years what was
your community engagement like in 2018
and 2019 and what's it like today and
what is the real power that the
community actually does have in shaping
the direction of blockchain cuties all
right let's start with the beginning as
you said right so uh initially when we
just started obviously the ogs of the
community are the ones that join in just
to check it out like they're about the
fun of it like specifically only about
the fun of it they want to take it check
out the tech how it works there's a game
and stuff like that and you know our
have been always quite detailed
comparing to a lot of other projects and
I think that's one of our kind of strong
suits and the artwork just gets more and
more and more and more complex and more
pretty and like I always gush about like
our artists doing like their best work
every single event and they just don't
stop like developing as professionals
which is really really cool like if you
look at the kitties that we released in
2018 and now those are drastically
different like not approaches but like
the Styles even though the artists are
pretty much the same it's just the style
gets developed as you go along there's
more techniques developed and stuff like
that which is really really cool and uh
the style is kind of the same like you
know which is like chibi kind of style
like bigger head smaller torso kind of
cartoonish and all that but at the same
time there's much more detail much more
depth to the artwork right now and I
think that's one of the attractions for
the game for like the initial
impulse I guess to kind of check it out
for a lot of people and um we were
talking about the 2018 Community which
was just 20 to like 100 people which is
not that small already but considering
the numbers it's quite a bit smaller but
it was a lot like it is a tightly knit
Community uh there's people helping out
each other even though they just met
here their like alliances made and stuff
like that there have been uh drama as
well obviously looking back on it like
when it when it happened like I was
super stressed I didn't know what to do
with it like how to you know help out
there so everyone has a fun time now
it's a little bit different it's
definitely different we still have quite
a few uh you know ogs that started in
2018 still which I do think is one of
the like something to be proud about for
the team right that the community stays
a lot of blockchain games and uh like
blockchain based communities coming up
people move on people figure out some
cool stuff for maybe forget about their
previous communities that they were part
of or kind of get like you said
disenfranchised with whatever project
they have been working at maybe they
talked to like Community mods they talk
to the people in the team they just
didn't like them and just decided to
leave like there's many different
reasons why people can jump here and uh
we have quite a lot of people still in
the community that were joining it in
and have became great advocates for what
we do when Tron hit one of our players
Paul have been going off like he helped
people get him on boarded with Tron he
believed in Tron from the beginning and
they had a lot of fun with it he taught
people how to do stuff and showed them
how to train gave him cuties and stuff
like that it was nuts but uh yeah the
community uh now is slightly different
the people are there still I mean uh
those ogs are still there but at the
same time a lot of new faces came in so
like the whole mode kind of shifts back
and forth in a lot of ways which is good
you know you don't want to get it
everything's stale right so this is a
protocol agnostic podcast but I myself
have been covering Neo since 2018 so I
can completely relate to what it's like
to see some ogs who have stuck around
you know the same Twitter handles the
same Discord handles that have been
talking the yeah over the year years and
then as time kind of goes on you lose
some of them of course with the with a
cryptocurrency like Neo you can lose
them because the price drops rapidly
just like with almost every other crypto
out there that can happen and you just
lose people because this happened to
their speculative investment that they
made and now they've attached the
negative emotion to this thing that
happens in such a new speculative Market
yeah for sure but then you also have
these new folks that are coming in and
they bring a new level of passion and
they also don't have that kind of I
don't want to call it baggage of history
but they don't have these memories and
some of them might been might have been
bad like my nft got frozen when I was
trying to move it from chain to chain or
something like that and so they just
don't have that bad taste in their mouth
well I guess yeah but at the same time
it's it kind of hinders on the people
who run the project as well right so
what we do is we run like basically I'm
Community lead and I help out with tech
support all the time right if something
is wrong people write to our like
General chats and we don't DM ourselves
you know the rule basically because
people like to DM like hi I am support
here's link
you click link and it's gonna be great
trust me
yeah bro trust me yeah exactly thank you
that that's like this is how it works
like bro trust me it is absurd right and
uh we started to do this as a procedure
and on our end as well as that people
ask questions about like tech support
and stuff like that in general chat we
try to help out if there's any like more
sensitive details that are being
discussed some people don't like to
share their public quality right so I
usually write like DM me your issue like
with more details I'll try to figure it
out and help you out and that kind of
helps along with the the community
building as well I think where the
community knows that if they have a
problem they can go to the developers
and ask questions and they will try
their best to help out obviously it
takes time it takes energy and uh
obviously I could be doing different
things but I do think that's one of the
vital things that a lot of AAA companies
if we Circle back to the the question
that you had built before how AAA
companies do it they automate everything
right so they they kind of corporatize
it which I understand why it's done
because you know there's so many people
that you can't
handle right but at the same time if
there's even a fraction of that that you
can do live as you go through your day
uh helping like one or two people even
can make a huge difference right they
can become your advocacy they can become
your ogs that will stick with you for
years to come because they know they can
lean on you if they have issues and that
is an important Bond I think as a
community you have to kind of nurture
the community members and let them know
that you're there good or bad like they
can sling mod at you they can scream at
you for like whatever you did like
they're they're obviously things that go
on through development like you develop
an idea you push that idea into the
community and they're like nah that's
bad and like sometimes people like very
very heavily lean into like letting you
know you're wrong but you don't need to
take it personally that's one of the
most important things the community lets
you know what they if they like
viciously tell you what they know and I
mean it in a good way they can go super
heavy on you you know calling your names
calling you stupid and whatever that
means they like what you're you have
been doing so far and they care for the
future that is a very important aspect
of it a lot of people kind of brush it
off within like
2019-2020 we had quite a bit of a rough
patch uh in a lot of like development
aspects for like there were bonding
attempts there were there were quite a
few things that happened that were not
let's say great to go through but at the
same time those are learning
opportunities that uh kind of made us
what we are today in a lot of ways like
the personal items came out from that
there have been Seasons uh started and
reworked into what they are now we
started to kind of world build like we
added lore into the mix so we started to
write different characters and stuff
like that and people like that but in
game mechanics it's a little bit more
complex due to the blockchain nature so
you have to like balance it out and this
is where people start to kind of bump
heads with the developers because they
see the one way we see it the other way
and through that conversation we figure
out things that is one important thing
that's uh I I think a lot of developers
don't do even though they say they do
it's not exactly that I hope that makes
sense it's kind of a like sort of a
tangent in a way here but uh I hope you
understand what I mean no I get it I've
I I have witnessed several nft projects
where maybe development isn't occurring
as fast as people would like or
communication patterns aren't as strong
as people would like and when you
combine emotions and basically money you
can get some strong reactions from
people because they're such an emotional
attachment to an investment and you have
such a direct relationship with the
developers that you can just yell at
them and say hey devs do something now I
think something that keeps me humble
that I try to remember when I might have
an interaction with someone that kind of
shuts my temper off or maybe rubs me the
wrong way most of the world doesn't
speak English in a lot of online
communication is in English oh yeah so
this is somebody's second language and
it's not third or third or fourth even
and so for a native English speaker who
kind of gets rubbed the wrong way I have
to constantly remind myself that this
just might be an error in communication
and maybe I should take a step back and
try to understand the content of what
the comment is rather than like paying
attention to the the words that might
have been used improperly or maybe they
were a little too angry and the person
who made the comment didn't realize the
impact of that word because this is
their acts language yeah so that's
something that I try and take into
consideration myself kind of wrapping up
because I know it's getting late in your
neck of the woods I want to talk about
what the next steps are for blockchain
Cuties now you've talked about iterating
off of experience adding items adding
adventures all of this you've learned
and I've noticed that something next on
the road map is this Land Based sort of
wartime game that's coming out so could
you tell me a little bit more about wars
of cutie lands
how lands will be represented as nfts
and just kind of what the goal is for
this next iteration of blockchain cuties
uh yeah sure uh well uh working last
have been in development for quite a bit
right so and uh making uh a grand
strategy I believe it's called with uh
constantly updated map for example if
you played Travian or something of that
nature it's kind of similar for that I
guess there's a lot of mobile games that
are pretty similar to that as well but
with blockchain it is a little bit
different right so obviously there are
islands that we're we have been selling
depending on the island I think all of
the islands are kind of outside of the
like general map which is I think was
two million cells so there's a huge
world map that we drawn up if you dig a
little bit I think you will be able to
find it on our Twitter I I can take a
look a little bit later to share it with
you if you want
so basically there's a huge map with
different like parts of the world and uh
obviously there's going to be different
resources and stuff like that within
like that map the blockchain aspect
comes in with the islands and uh the
cuties so the Cuties are going to be the
war power in a way so you will be able
to kind of transfer your cuties from
like adventurers to military pretty much
and utilize your cuties in buildings as
well uh that's one of the plans for the
future where these goodies will be able
to kind of like mine things craft things
you know the usual
make like it's not a usual mechanic uh
it's just like we we talked about it for
like a few years already uh there's been
a lot of uh stuff going on with it and
uh it kind of became the norm in a way
one of the most important things will be
the island itself where you craft your
armor you gear up your soldiers you get
generals you get artifacts for those
generals that give Buffs and stuff like
that but those artifacts are going to be
on the map so people will have to fight
for them it's hard to kind of like
explain everything in like a few
sentences I'll try my best to kind of
summarize this uh I I know I went many
different ways right now with the
previous sentences so it's a grand
strategy game right uh where Cuties are
soldiers you have generals that lead
them uh you'll have armies obviously the
RVs are going to be like dependent on uh
the amount of time you put into your
account so there's gonna be upgrades and
stuff like that going on with that
there's going to be a lot lot of events
popping up on the map and one of the
most important things is that depending
on your blockchain for the island you'll
be fighting for that Kingdom
this is where it gets like meta right
you have to get territory that's awesome
and uh whichever kingdom is going to be
more powerful depends on the players
entirely right so uh the developers give
you the sandbox and just let you do
whatever you want with it within its
realm and uh I think there's going to be
a lot of like power struggles and stuff
like that going on there's going to be
like wall builds where people just put
in like smaller armies across like a
specific border for example
as they do in like other games there's
many different goals that people do uh
on those like Grand strategy games and
uh all of that is going to be like
blockchain Reliant as well uh so you can
use enfds you can use your Islands to
level up your buildings that you build
on those islands and stuff like that one
important uh differentiation within the
islands is that every island up until
the founder lands are going to be
outside of the map so you kind of like
ship your army onto the land and kind of
build there right but your HQ is off the
map but you still can get attacked and
all that the usual but at the same time
the founder lands are going to be
actually on the map right so there's
going to be capitals for the kingdoms
and those who got the founder lands will
be able to show off in a way so their
cities are going to be available on the
map right away for everyone to see and
uh obviously for some kingdoms that may
be less popular or less powerful the
territory can just shrink up to that
Capital that's the only thing that
cannot be captured but quite a lot of
territory can be taken away and it's
going to be interesting to see how the
community is gonna rally into like these
uh blockchain clubs in a way like
alliances yeah
to fight for territory and power there's
a lot of politics that's going to be
done over blockchain as well we have
bcug which is governance token we use it
for like new idea votes right now and
there are some utility that comes into
the game already but uh the the main
event is going to be if there are
freelance where people will vote for
their kings of the kingdom and stuff
like that basically there's going to be
like policies that gives Buffs debuffs
and stuff like that so it's going to be
a huge undertaking for for players in a
way but at the same time when they learn
it it's going to be a lot of fun I think
that sounds really cool that you're
going to have factions based off of what
chain people are using and also a really
cool way that it sounds like the bcug
token is going to be used for kind of
like governance Dao like purposes do you
notice a specific chain that most of
your users are using for about two years
since we uh added an end of 2018 Tron
was very very popular right so it was
very populated because it was very cost
effective a lot of people got into it
they figured it out obviously in the
last year they did some changes to how
they work and price ranges and all that
but at the same time quite a lot of
people went with Tron but I do think
there's like until it's out there and we
see the data they can't really say there
might be some people that like see the
launch and they're like all right I'm
getting this uh like an island of this
blockchain and I'm inviting my friends
and we're gonna kick butt you know like
there's definitely going to be people
like that and uh I'm really excited to
see how the kingdoms are going to be
fighting for power and uh it's gonna be
really cool to see yeah that's going to
be fun to follow along and if you ever
have uh any kind of like neo-specific
news or information I would love to
cover it for Neo news today yeah sure
but other than that as a blockchain
Enthusiast I look forward to seeing just
kind of how that plays out moving
forward so if anyone wants to get
involved in blockchain cuties or buy a
blockchain QD or help the team develop
the game or the project what's the best
way that folks can get involved or get
connected with blockchain cuties
Universe well obviously you can join in
uh the discussion on our telegram this
has been the main hub for us for most of
the time we do have a Discord as well
where people can drop in so just ideas
and stuff like that obviously they can
ping me on telegram Discord Twitter
whichever suits them we do have a
Twitter as well pretty active and uh
basically any social network that you
can find us on you can pretty much like
get us up and like let us know what you
think and ask questions and stuff like
that but like best course of action
would be telegram at the sport those are
the most active channels in terms of
like live communication let's say
awesome well Andrew thank you so much
for coming to join the smart economy
podcast it was really cool to pick your
brain on blockchain cuties we've been
covering the project since 2019 and I
just love chatting with OG teams who
have continued to build through multiple
boom bus Cycles so again I want to thank
you so much for coming to join and um
definitely looking forward to catching
up in the future and following along
with all the progress that blockchain
Cuties is making hell yeah man thank you
for having me honestly uh it was a lot
of fun I can gush about our projects but
for quite a long time and about the tech
so always happy to join in totally well
looking forward to uh potentially having
you come join the Pod again at some
point in the future and until then have
a good one hey man thanks laters cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
interesting to hear more about the
differences between the development and
economic models of traditional games
versus blockchain based games it was
also really exciting to learn more about
the different types of blockchain cuties
Universe players and how token economic
incentives align with their style of
gameplay and I'm looking forward to
seeing the blockchain network based
factions that will arise in the
forthcoming Wars of cutie land's game on
that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
foreign